[LiveComponent] Tweak live collection rendering (#421)
symfony/ux: src/LiveComponent/src/Resources/doc/index.rst

        {{ block('button_widget') }}
    {% endblock live_collection_button_add_widget %}

If you only want to customize some attributes maybe simpler to use the options in the form type:

    // ...
    ->add('comments', LiveCollectionType::class, [
        'entry_type' => CommentFormType::class,
        'allow_add' => true,
        'allow_delete' => true,
        'by_reference' => false,
        'label' => false,
        'button_delete_options' => [
            'label' => 'X',
            'attr' => [
                'class' => 'btn btn-outline-danger',
            ],
        ]
    ])
    // ...

If you want more control over how each row is rendered you can override the blocks
related to the ``LiveCollectionType``. This works the same way as for `the traditional

> collection type`_, but you should use ``live_collection`` and ``live_collection_entry`` as

Reviewer: Did you mean `live_collection_widget` here?

Author: No, I just meant to mention it's just a prefix, it can be `live_collection_widget`, `live_collection_row`, `live_collection_errors`, ... and linked the docs for the collection field (https://symfony.com/doc/current/form/form_themes.html#fragment-naming-for-collections). Maybe better to write `live_collection_*` instead.

prefixes instead.

> Let's continue our previous example and customize the rendering of the blog post comments form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, et's continue our previous example and customize the rendering of the blog post comments form.
```

I'm adding this because, if I'm understand things correctly, the example below is intended to show how you could override the blocks that were mentioned above.

By default the add comment button is placed after the comments, let's move it before them.

.. code-block:: twig

>     {%- block _blog_post_form_comments_widget -%}

Reviewer: Should this `live_collection_widget`? I mean, I know what you have is correct for this situation, but I think showing `live_collection_widget` would be better (it would be very rare someone would need to override `LiveCollectionType` twice in the same form in a different way).

Author: I meant this could be an example for customizing just for a specific form type, and the next with the bootstrap table could be a generic one. But it's fine by me to keep it simple and just use `live_collection_widget` here too.

        {%- if button_add is defined and not button_add.rendered -%}
            {{ form_row(button_add) }}
        {%- endif -%}
        {{ block('form_widget') }}
    {%- endblock -%}

Now add a div around each row:

.. code-block:: twig

    {%- block _blog_post_form_comments_entry_row -%}
        <div>
            {{ block('form_row') }}
            {%- if button_delete is defined and not button_delete.rendered -%}
                {{ form_row(button_delete) }}
            {%- endif -%}
        </div>
    {%- endblock -%}

.. note::

>     The ``LiveCollectionType`` under the hood adds a ``button_add`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under the hood, ``LiveCollectionType`` adds ``button_add`` and ``button_delete`` fields...
```

    tree, but only the form view. The ``button_add`` is added to the
    collection view variables and a ``button_delete`` is added to each
    item view variables.

As an another example, now let's create a general bootstrap 5 theme for the live
collection type, rendering every item in a table row:

.. code-block:: twig

    {%- block live_collection_widget -%}
        <table class="table table-borderless form-no-mb">
            <thead>
            <tr>
                {% for child in form|last %}
                    <td>{{- form_label(child) -}}</td>
                {% endfor %}
            </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                {{ block('form_widget') }}
            </tbody>
        </table>
        {%- if skip_add_button|default(false) is same as false and button_add is defined and not button_add.rendered -%}
            {{ form_widget(button_add, { label: '+ Add Item', class: 'btn btn-outline-primary' }) }}
        {%- endif -%}
    {%- endblock -%}

    {%- block live_collection_entry_row -%}
        <tr>
            {% for child in form|filter(child => not child.rendered) %}
                <td>{{- form_row(child, { label: false }) -}}</td>

>             {% endfor %}

Reviewer: Is this a clever way to loop over all of the fields in the sub-form and render them? If so, what's the purpose of the `|filter(child => not child.rendered`?

Author: Yes, this just renders the children in a `<td>`. It's safer to use in this way, because if a field was rendered already, rendering it again will throw an exception. But in this case it's not really necessary, so I leave it out.

            <td>
                {{ form_row(button_delete, { label: 'X', attr: { class: 'btn btn-outline-danger' } }) }}
            </td>
        </tr>
    {%- endblock -%}

If you don't want to customize each row but want to put the add button to a different place,

> later in the template, the ``skip_add_button`` parameter can be used.

Reviewer: To render the add button later in the template, you can skip rendering it initially with ``skip_add_button``,
then render it manually after:

.. code-block:: twig

    <table class="table table-borderless form-no-mb">
        <thead>
            <tr>
                <td>Item</td>
                <td>Priority</td>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>

>             {{ form_row(form.todoItems, { skip_add_button: true }) }}

Author: Not sure about this. The same can be done by rendering the button into a variable before this line.

Reviewer: `skip_add_button` feels less hacky - so I like it 👍
